---
title: "Rakuten Interview Process: part II"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-14
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- jgam
- Rakuten
- recruiting
- job offer
- interview
category: blog
author: jgam
description: job search
---

##First Interview

Now it was the day for the first interview and took me almost hour and a half to get to crimson house from my home. When I first got to the Futako-Tamagwa station, I was really surprised that the site was modern and luxurious. I see department stores with almost 10 floors with full of various brands. Also, the organic stores on the first floor seemed to be targeting rich people. Anyways, it took me about 5 minutes to get to crimson house 20 minutes before the interview started. The instruction said that I had to get a ticket from the ticket booth and simpy "wait" there. I got the ticket sticker and put it on my left chest like everyone who had their stickes there and sat down at a lobby table for 10 minutes. Around 5 minutes before, I got up and a woman with an ipad reached to me asking if my name was jgam and I said yes. She took me to 7th floor where lots of private meeting rooms were located and went one of the rooms to wait for my department's head.

##The First Interview Process

The department's head soon arrived at the room and we started talking. The interview lasted about 30 minutes and the time scheduling in Japan was the finiest! Right after the interview, the interviewer escorted me back to the lobby on the first floor and I was waiting for a current Rakuten software developer to talk about the life at Rakuten and goals as a developer. He took me to Indian place and was awesome although somewhat crowded. After that, we got our coffee and chatted while walking around Crimson House which had exclusive views and scenes. Anyways, two hours later I was notified that I was fowarded to the next round of interview. Just like the first one, I sent Rakuten several time slots.

## Second Interview

I really wanted to get done with the interviews as early as possible especially before the long week of break which was called a golden break. Unfortunately, things didn't work out well and I had to do an interview after the golden week which took another two weeks for me. After the golden week, I visited Rakuten Crimson House again. The site of the view still seemed beautiful and loved the vibes there. Same strategy as before, I got the ticket and was waiting for someone to pick me up and soon a woman confirmed if my name is Gam and she took me to 2nd floor this time where the people can see the inside of the room. After about five minutes, engineers came in and they conducted an interview.

The interview level was mediocre and relevant to technical. However, my goal was to be "real me" and tried to show things that I can contribute not only as a developer but also as a person. After the interview, the interviewers escorted me back again to the lobby and thereafter, I met another developer at Rakuten to talk more about the company and any new technologies as a developer.

I forgot to mention this, but I was really worried after the interview. The overall interview went smoothly, and the interviewer asked me if I had any questions. I confidently, (still don't know why I did it) asked him if he thinks I will have a good chance of getting the opportunities. Then there was an awkward moment and I told him that the reason for that question was I want this opportunity badly. He then understood me and told me that the result will get back to me soon and let's just wait a little bit. That afternoon, I got a call that I am moving forward to the 3rd round of interview.

# Third/Last interview

Because I wanted to get done with the interview process earlier. I kindly asked Rakuten HR if I could haave an interview at the end of the week which was the Friday. They were kind enough to proceed my interview later that week and this time via skype because I did not want to use another leave of my current work when we have lots of projects going on.

On Friday, I did my last set of interview and it was somewhat different from previous interviews because they asked me questions that are suitable for promotions. I know the questions are confidential so I am not going to write them here. However, during this interview, I learned that how delicate Rakuten interview process is and very detailed in getting new people.