---
title: "Atarashii kaisha: Rakuten"
layout: post
date: 2019-06-18
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- jgam
- Rakuten
- New work
- web architecture
- IoT
category: blog
author: jgam
description: Onboarding to the new environment
---

## First Orientation

Through this article, I want to demonstrate different culture that I faced when working in Japanese company. So currently, Rakuten Mobile Inc. is getting hot attentions from Rakuten and hiring people from all over the world. My colleagues, all had work experiences and were settled as somewhat managing positions. Before the orientation, I was given a laptop and had to set the VPN and intranet following the instructions given. (You can choose OS from windows or mac) It was pain for me to go to cafeteria to get the wifi because I was using Mac.

## Orientation

Orientation proceeded about four hours and in between two hours, we went to get a lunch. During the time, we could meet each other but I wish there were a time that we could gather together and introduce each other. The orientation for international employees taught mainly about adjustments in Japan. (going to ward office, getting a new housing, creating bacnk accounts and etc.) Because I was done with most of the things, I did not have to take notes on any of the powerpoint slides. After the orientation, The HR department took us on crimson tour which was there to introduce the facilities and other information about the company.

## Facilities

Rakuten is very well known for its cafeteria because all the meals (breakfast, lunch, and dinner) are given at a 0 cost. (they are free! yay!) Surpisingly, the quality of meal is decent. The quantity is little less than my usual meal but I guess I will take this time as an opportunity to get slander. The cafeteria i located in two floors, 9th and 22nd. On 9th, there exists various kinds of facilities: Hair salon, massage shop, fitness center, spa, and rakuten cafe. Also, post office! All these facilities are there to enhance the quality of employees and I cannot wait to try those facilities. One good thing is that you can see Futako Tamagawa area in one sight because Rakuten Crimson House is one of the only massively tall building in there.

## Future

After that, I was introduced to the team that I will be working with. Under IoT technology, I will be serving as an engineer/ technician to implement IoT services and data science with the data being accumulated from IoT services. I cannot wait what lies in my future and will update soon!