---
title: "What is IoT?"
layout: post
date: 2019-04-12
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- jgam
- IoT
- Rakuten
- crimson
- algorithm
star: true
category: blog
author: jgam
description: IoT
---

## The Internet of Things

What is IoT? I have been wrondering what the term actually means. It is by Wikipedia, defined as the internet of things. So, does that mean it is some soft of internet, like web? or the ease of accessing information? After reading quite a few articles(may be 1 or 2), I found out that it is a somewhat broad concept of becoming smarter and smarter. One example, I thought about is a remote controller from the movie called ["Click"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Click_(2006_film))

Long story short, the remote controller controls the protagonist, Adam Sandler's life. He can *literally* fast-forward and rewind his life to the time periods where he wants to be.

Now let's go back to the IoT. Surprisingly, the remote controller that I mentioned is happening in our life by little and little. When I first got an ipod Touch, I was so shocked to go online through safari and check the ESPN soccer highlights. (of course the UI at that time was not as great as that of today but STILL) Similarly, through your phone, you can even register a Language test(Yes, I did register JLPT on my iphone.)

Yes, IoT is an interconnected network thta allows devices such as phones, computers, any other house hold goods to not only communicate with humans but also with each other.

One example I can think of is, when we run a laundary, the dryer automatically hits up five minutes before the laundary gets done or even the closet lines up empty hangers so that we can use them to dry our laundaries. COOL, isn't it?

## Assets of IoT

After a research, I found out that there exist core takeaways in IoT or at least to proceed any IoT related projects with these things in mind.

1. Data is the new currency
2. Faith and Lead
3. IoT Book
4. Business should take the driving seat

First of all, let me redefine the IoT. IoT is not a single technology, rather a term used to characterize interconnected "smart objects" or things and their unique ability to collate and, in turn, share information about their world. In other worlds, we empower our "things" in various contexts to ultimately gather data, which is specific to their environment. So what to do with after gathering data? Let's put it this way. I believe that if we have a data from the past, and present, we can predict the future and explain with future data. Example is a lots of machine learning technologies that predict the future.

Now, because this is a broad field, I believe even though I have never worked in such IoT industries, people will encounter "what the others are doing?" Yes, it is a broad mindset but you have to believe in yourself of the products and the results you produce. Let's just take a leap of faith and lead the self or the people around you to maybe become the first person to achieve it?

Because of IoT's characteristics, I assume lots of teams mingle together to not only develop the products together but also to share their problems and thoughts. Ok, the key is communication and it is very hard when you are from different backgrounds especially when you are from differnt fields. Yes, integral point is to be on the SAME page. Wiuth this in mind, a book, of sorts, should be created so that each team member has the same understanding. If I get to work on IoT, I will first check how this is happening to see if the teams are actually collaborating or not.

Of course, lots of tech companies are planning to offer an IoT solution. I really believe the statement of the business strategy defining your IoT strategy should keep in mind that the technology that empowers your IoT strategy is defined by real-world use cases, which help shpae your overall vision. Yes, we are developing IoT but what is a strategy? is it tangible? We need to start developing solutions that solve real-world problems rather than meremly **having strategy and devloping IoT.**