---
title: "Learning Frontend: what is web app?"
layout: post
date: 2019-03-25
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- jgam
- php
- webdevelopment
- my-sql
- webapp
category: blog
author: jgam
description: web app
---

##How to create web app?

1. 구상
2. 기획(계획)
3. 디자인
4. 개발_development
5. 테스트

**"START SMALL"**

Computers are connected by a huge network and this network is called an "Internet." A communication between computers is held by transferring HTML(Hyper text markup Language) which is the client's side code. Tim Burnersly created a web browser and a web server. These two are critical in terms for users because users can easily get access to web pages such as google, yahoo, and etc. Also, Tim created a communication protocol which was a HTTP and a language called "HTML" to make this means of communication a lot smoother and user-friendlier.

## Server & Client?

Say we have two computers. One is called as a "computer" and the other is called as a "server." What is the difference between them? Typically, a server tends to be more stable by having a little more pricy hardwares. However, that really does not make the official difference. The real difference comes that web-browser is installed on client(computer) and web-server is installed on a server. Now how they interact? The client asks for a **request** and server has a web-server that stores web-pages and reads them to give a **respons** back to the client.

Now, we usually call web-browsers and web-server communicate with each other! So, we need to install a web-server. People may be thinking "if we are the web-server, who is the client?" Yes, we are the client. We can be both client and server, because we can direct the response from server to our own which we typically call as a "localhost" or "127.0.0"

## Servers?

Apache Nginx -> Open Source

IIS -> Microsoft

The trend is that Apache is the number one that has never lost its throne of King.　We will go for Apache! We not only need the webserver(Apache) but also databases and sever side languages. It is very hard to download and install those manually. The server-side softwares are really complex which direct that installing is very trouble shooting. (So please have your understanding and keep patient!) Possibler solution is a "bitnami" which is an application that easily installs server softwares! There exists other such as APM set up and other tools.

## How to control PHP, mysql, Apache?

Through bitnami!

## HTML

What is Hypertext? It is a link. Through the links, we can make a huge chunk of Hyper textx that become the origin of web pages. How does that work? Linkes make up the origins of HTML and HTMLs make up the origins of web.  So what is a HTML (Hyper text markup language）? It is a language that humans and web-browsers both can understand.

In web application, HTML is an information. By means "information", this HTML tells users what the web is about. (without decorations!) This basically creates a structure of a human (bones) and enlists information in a certain way that the HTML wants the information to be displayed.

## Markup?

First, we need to understand TAGs. The information about something is called "Tag" as we can see it when we buy clothes.

```HTML
Hello, this is <strong>jgam's</strong> blog!
```

Here, the strong tags indicate jgam to be bolded. Now let's go for actual HTML example.

## HTML tags

What is <nav>?
Demonstrates a navigation and does not have a specific functionalities. However, as promised, using <nav> we know that this tag demonstrates the information about searching through this website.

Similarly, we have articles and headers that each demonstrate contents of the web page and titles of the web page. Thus, HTML tags should be designed as useful informatino both to humans and computers.


## CSS

What is CSS? Cascading Style Sheet!

CSS is created just to decorate HTML's limitations. Usually in HTML code, we write a tag called "style" and list the CSS part.

```javascript
<style>
    h1 {color:red}
</style>
```

Above code represents that h1 tag's color is red. In terminologies, we call h1 as **selector** and {color:red} as **description**.

[here is the link!][https://github.com/jgam/javascript_web/fundamentals/HTML/]