---
title: "Rakuten Interview Process: part I"
layout: post
date: 2019-05-04
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- jgam
- Rakuten
- recruiting
- job offer
- interview
category: blog
author: jgam
description: job search
---

## Rakuten

Because I am a footballer it is just surreal to not be aware of FC Barcelona which is probably one of the most well known soccer teams from Spain. The very famous player "the God" Lionel Messi is a captain of the team. Since a few years ago, after having Qatar Airways on their chests as their sponsor company, FC Barcelona made a contract with Rakuten and that was my first impression of the company Rakuten because I was aware of the name of the company, rather did not know what the company was actually about.

Coming into Japan, I realized how huge Rakuten is with its e-commerce business and building platforms for various industries. Recently, they announced that they want to be huge in mobile industry and shoot for fourth largest mobile company in Japan. In conclusion, it is a BIG company and engineering program there is undoubtful.


## My Resume

The beauty of resume comes from 1 paged resume and that is it. This was my structure of resume. However, I soon realized this was applicable only in America. Of course the resume should clarify professional skills and extracurricular activities in a precise way. However, ti doesn't necessarily have to be fit into a single page. So, I included my army experience which was integral in my life but only took it out because I had to put in other hands on engineering related experience on there. So, the get away here is that you need to put all the information of your life in the maximum of two pages. However, it is obvious that you are prepared to explain everything on your resume in details and maybe any lessons from such.


## Opportunity

My sister who is also trying to get a new job (luckily she is at a final verge of getting an offer from SONY) referred me with Rakuten opportunity and although the company only listed opportunities for project managers, seniors, and non-engineering positions, I still gave it a try thinking that tech background will be a difference that I can provide among other candidates. So I sent my resume.

Finally they got me back saying that the positions that I applied for are not suitable and good fit for me. However, because I am a software developer, they want to proceed my application with software engineering positions at Rakuten. So, that was the first pass of the application process. They wanted me to list various available time slots so that they can schedule the interview. I did reply them with different options.


## First interview

After about a week that I heard the news that I will be proceeding with Rakuten. They told me the location and when the interview will be held. Luckily, the location was in Rakuten Crimson House which is the head quarter. So the following week, I got to have an interview at Rakuten Crimson House. Approximately, it took two weeks from I heard from Rakuten that they wanted to proceed interview with me.