---
title: "IBM: Web Architecture"
layout: post
date: 2019-06-13
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- jgam
- conference
- IBM
- web architecture
- Web
category: blog
author: jgam
description: little detail about web architecture
---

## DNS

Domain name system and it is a hierarchical and decentralized naming system for computers, services, or other resources connected to the internet or a private network.

## Createiong of DB

CRUD is first thing that needs to be done. Create, Read, Update and Delete is basic process and logic that needs to be built (data structure) when creating a database.

Cache server(memory) is another useful database that stores data or information before database(hard disk). It is faster to read and write but it is dangerous because the data will vaporate when computer is shut down.

## CDN

Content delivery network is a network that connects big files or contents to here.

## big data

Put it in to Dataware House (Hadoop) data firebase?

## Full text search service

Elastic search -> another way of managing database. This is a trend. **When new product is available, we need to understand the philosophy of it and see why we use that at that certain era.**

It is 100% helpful to build web app from the bottom.

Things need to be learned for web architecturers:
1. Web platform (django maybe?)
2. unix command (regex, shell scripting, process management(zombies and kills))
3. Database(SQL, RDBMS, index? performance check!)
4. Basic programming(never hard-coding, version management)

Some of the situations:
1. I know one or two languages, can I create product with similar qualities as other developers?
-> know one language and get familiar with that language. That is the key.

2. I do not want to reveal my weakness, what should I do ?
-> reach out to people and know who to reach out is very important.

3. nothing to learn here? what should I do?
-> always be the worst developer on your team. If need to move, move to a new environment.

4. What is the next big boss or problem?
-> I need guide and assistance. Find **mentor**